# Sydney_transportation_preference
The following study analyzes the factors influencing Sydneysiders to choose trains over cars when carrying out regular commutes. The purpose of the report is to identify insightful patterns on commuter behavior and to accordingly design a marketing strategy for the local transportation authority.

To come up with such insights, a dataset encompassing 330 observations and 4 features of train and car trips was studied. Firstly, a preliminary analysis shows that transportation choice is better explained by car trip duration and cost as well as by train trip cost, but not by train trip duration. The explanation is simple: whereas train trips can be characterized only by their duration or cost—short trips are cheap and long ones expensive, car trips are characterized both by cost and duration, which depend at the same time on distance and traffic—a long trip in duration, being stuck in traffic for example, is not necessarily costly. As a result, train trip costs are enough to explain commuter behavior on the train side.

After the previous feature selection, a thorough analysis led to interesting insights. Among the factors with the highest impact are train cost and car trip duration. Picture a pouring day before deciding what means to choose for commuting. If the train ticket is reduced by $1, there is a 10.5% increase in the odds of choosing train, and for each minute increase in the car trip duration due to rain, there is an increase of 6% in odds.

In consequence, a smart strategy would be to reduce one-way ticket prices by $1.50 for ocassional train commuters. The initiative would increase train odds on sunny days by 15%. Moreover, a 55% increase in odds would be achieved on bad weather days—those with around 5-minutes delays on car trips. As a result, an evident decrease in traffic, and therefore in pollution. 

In terms of profits, the impact magnitude of the campaign will depend on the number of converted commuters as well as on the discounted tickets’ contribution margins. In addition, a spike in profits could arise from traffic reduction subsidies negotiated with the city hall.
